.TH JrWM 1 "7 June 2026"
.SH NAME
JrWM \- a junior window manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jrwm
.SH DESCRIPTION
JrWM is a dynamic tiling window manager for the
.IR river (1)
Wayland compositor.
It is designed to be small, low-dependency, easy to build, read and modify, and
to have a good degree of correctness.
.P
Windows in JrWM are organized into spaces, which are collections of windows
associated with an output and a layout.
Multiple spaces may be associated with an output simultaneously, but only one
space is visible on an output at any one time.
Supported layouts are a tiled layout like that of
.IR dwm (1)
and a monocle layout.
.P
JrWM supports very little in the way of visuals.
Window borders are drawn to indicate focus state, but for anything else,
additional programs such as
.IR waybar (1)
must be used.
For the sake of these programs, JrWM supports the river-layer-shell-v1 protocol.
.SH INVOCATION
JrWM must be run with an already-running river compositor.
This is typically done by invoking
.B jrwm
as the final command in one's .config/river/init file.
However, JrWM can also be run with an already-running compositor session by
invoking
.B jrwm
with the
.B WAYLAND_DISPLAY
environment variable set to the appropriate value.
.SH OPTIONS
JrWM has no command-line options.
.SH USAGE
These are the default internal key bindings within JrWM.
Mod4 is often referred to as the "super" or "windows" key.
.TP
.B Mod4-q
Close the focused window.
.TP
.B Mod4-Shift-e
Exit the current river session.
.TP
.B Mod4-j
Focus the next window in the current space.
.TP
.B Mod4-k
Focus the next window in the current space.
.TP
.B Mod4-Shift-j
Move the window "forward" in the current space.
.TP
.B Mod4-Shift-k
Move the window "backward" in the current space.
.TP
.B Mod4-m
Toggle the current space's layout between monocle and tiled.
.TP
.B Mod4-s
Swap between the two spaces on the current output.
.SH CUSTOMIZATION
JrWM has no dynamic customization mechanism and changes to the behavior
described in this document must be made by editing its source.
There are three C files in the JrWM source.
.TP
.B jrwm.c
Defines the protocol interactions and dispatches to the other files.
Largely not relevant to customization, but may require changes to ensure state
is captured from Wayland events, or propagated to Wayland requests, properly.
.TP
.B layout.c
Defines window layout, rendering information such as borders and colors, and
behavior on window, output, space, or seat creation and deletion.
.TP
.B bindings.c
Defines key bindings, both for internally-impacting actions like changing window
focus and for the argv of external spawned programs.
.SH BUGS
Bugs may be reported on the GitHub repository: https://github.com/jpco/jrwm.
